What, uh, computing hardware or,
um, just any kind of even software design, are you, uh,
do you find beautiful from your own work from other people's work
that you're just, uh, we were just talking about the,
the battleground of flaws and mistakes and in errors,
but things that were just beautifully done.
Is there something that pops to mind?
Well, when things are beautifully done,
usually there's a well set thought set of abstraction layers.
So the whole thing works in unison nicely. Yes.
And, and when I, when I say abstraction,
like that means two different components. When they work together,
they work independently. They don't have to know what the other one is doing.
So that deco.
Point. Yeah. So the, the famous one was the, the network stack,
like there's a seven layer network stack, you know, data,
transport and protocol and all the layers. And the innovation was,
is when they really wrote got that. Right. Because networks, before that,
didn't define those very well.
The layers could innovate independently and occasionally the layer boundary
would, would, you know, the interface would be upgraded. And that,
that let you know, the, the design space breathe.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> you could do something new in layer seven without having to
worry about how layer four worked mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And so good design does that. And you see it in processor designs.
When we did, um, the Zen design at AMD,
we made several components, very modular. And you know,
my insistence at the top was I wanted all the interfaces defined before we wrote
the RTL for the pieces. One of the verification leads to if we do this right,
I can test the pieces so well independently, when we put it together,
we won't find all these interaction bugs,
cuz the floating point knows how the cash works. And I was a little skeptical,
but he was mostly right that the,
the modularity designed greatly improved the quality.
Is that universally true in general? Would you say about good designs?
The modularity is like, usually we.
Talked about this before humans are only so smart, like,
and we're not getting in any smarter. Right.
But the complexity of things is going up. Yeah. So, you know,
a, a beautiful design can't be bigger than the person doing it. It's just,
you know, their piece of it.
Like the odds of you doing a really beautiful design of something that's way too
hard for you is low. Right? If it's way too simple for you,
it's not that interesting. It's like, well, anybody could do that,
but when you get the right match of your, your expertise and you know,
mental power to the right design size, that's cool,
but that's not big enough to make a meaningful impact on the world.
So now you have to have some framework to design the pieces. Yes.
So that the whole thing is big and harmonious, but
you know, when you put it together, it's, you know,
sufficiently interesting to, to be used and you know,
so that's what the beautiful design is.